So there is one thing that's messing up
your decision-m and it's avoidance.
Period. End of discussion.
So first we have to agree on some
semantics. We're going to make a
distinction between choice and making a
decision.
Choice is something that happens all the
time. Every second you're choosing to
watch this. You're choosing to shut this
off. I'm choosing to say this word. I'm
choosing to say that word. But there's
not a decision being made. And then
there's decision making which is oh I'm
sitting down and I'm thinking about what
I'm going to do. So in decision making
if you're there if you're already
deciding the first thing that's
happening is you're in fear. You're
already thinking oh there's something
that could go wrong and I have to make
sure that it doesn't go wrong. That's
what makes it different than a choice.
And if you're in fear it means you're
automatically trying to avoid something.
So, if you think about a really hard
decision that you have, typically what
that means is that there's one outcome
that you don't want, there's another
outcome that you don't want, there's
like maybe one outcome that you do want,
and you're trying to figure out how to
get it, but there's no way to 100% make
sure that you get the outcome that you
want. But here's the crazy thing. The
thing that you're trying to avoid is an
emotion. Meaning, nobody would say, "I
choose to be homeless." But if you knew
that being homeless would make you
happier than you've ever been, more
content than you've ever been, more
satisfied than you've ever been, you'd
at least be a lot less scared to be
homeless, if not just completely okay
with being homeless. So what we're
trying to do is we're trying to avoid an
emotional outcome. If I'm not worried
about being a failure and I'm not
worried about having ultimate success,
well then it's easy to make a decision
because I'm I don't have to try to stop
everything from happening. I can just
allow my best choice to come forth and
then I go and do it. It's the same thing
even in like a drug addiction or a
choice to doom scroll. What you're doing
is you're saying, "I don't want to feel
a certain way or I do want to feel a
certain way and so I'm going to avoid
that emotional experience that I don't
want by doom scrolling." And so that's
how we make our decisions. And you get
clarity of decision- making when you are
able to totally go into and feel and
love all the emotional experiences. But
there's another part of decision-m is
that we never think to automate our
decision-m,
right? So what does that mean automate
our decision- making? So one of the ways
that I have learned to not be avoidant
in my decision- making is that I have a
set of principles and I've thought about
those principles a lot. I've played with
them a lot. I've iterated on them a lot.
I've run a lot of experiments and now
when I have a hard decision, I go, "Oh,
what would my principles do?" And I do
the thing that my principles say to do.
If I live by these five principles, I'm
going to be successful. Period. end of
discussion success as I measure it. I
just know, oh, this is the thing to do.
And it's a very disciplined approach,
but it's only disciplined for a short
period of time. At first, you're like,
oh, I don't want to do that. But after a
while, you start feeling like, oh, if I
don't do the thing that my principles
say, it doesn't work out. So, it doesn't
take any discipline. It's like every
time you do something, it works. And
everything every time you don't do it,
it doesn't work. It becomes very easy to
do. And that's what principles do.
Eventually, you're like, "Oh, that thing
works, so I'm just going to keep on
doing that thing." And it requires no
discipline. And all of a sudden, your
decision- making just becomes choices.
For instance, one of my principles is
embrace intensity.
What that means is that I don't create
intensity, but I embrace it. Meaning, I
will feel into anything that I find to
be uncomfortable if it's presenting
itself.
Why do I have that as a principle? It's
because when I do that, I make clear
decisions because I'm not avoiding
anything.
It's a simple principle that I live by.
I'll do it every single time. And oddly,
over time, it was I was embracing the
intensity of fear or anger or failure.
But then I was like, "Oh, I'm embracing
the intensity of excitement, of joy, of
pleasure, which by the way, far more
intense."
And as I lived my principle, it unfolded
in such a way that it taught me how to
allow for so much more joy and so much
more pleasure in my life. And it's why
in the decision-making course, one of
the things we do is we really start
teaching people about what principles
are, how to create them, how to test
them, how to iterate on them, how to
make sure that they're the principles
that you actually want to live by. One
of the things we find out is that we are
actually already living by a set of
principles. Unfortunately, a lot of
those principles aren't great
principles. They're like, "Stay out of
trouble, make sure everybody's happy,
please people, be codependent, get angry
when you don't get what you want." Like,
those are the principles that you might
be living by. And when you bring that
into consciousness, you start seeing,
oh, wait, that that those things aren't
working for me. What is working for me?
I don't actually know, but I can run
some experiments to see what's going to
work for me.
And it's such a profound experience to
just bring into light what you're
actually already doing.
Just that awareness in itself starts to
change things. And then you realize, oh
wait, I can change behavior to make
decisions or I can make decisions to
change behavior. This is a place where
my principles used to say, "Oh, I'm
going to get angry." But now my
principles say, "I'm going to ask a how-
what question." Now my principles say,
"Oh, what is it that I'm not
understanding here?" Now my principles
are going to say, "I'm going to embrace
that intensity of anger and I'm going to
feel it in my whole body." And then
something different happens. And so
pretty soon you start to recognize when
you really start living by your
principles
that the most efficient way to change
your consciousness is to change your
behavior. You just say, "Oh, I'm going
to do something different 10 times and
see what happens." That will change your
consciousness. It's really, really
simple when you do it this way. Figuring
out how to do it is a whole another
trick, which is why we created the
decisions course. It's one of those few
things that it's hard to like completely
discover on your own. And it has been an
amazing process to watch people have
such a radical change in such a short
period of time. And it's not just like,
oh, I'm making decisions easier now.
It's that the whole life improves. When
you think about all your life is is a
series of choices and decisions. From
the moment that you're born to the
moment you die, you make choices, you
have decisions, and off you go. This is
the life that you get.
So when you improve that skill,
everything improves. The relationships
with parents improve, your job improves,
your life improves because it is the
quintessential thing that runs our life
is the choices that we make, is the
decisions that we make.